Project/sms 649 envoy gateway (#48)
canonical/service-mesh: projects/envoy-gateway/README.md

# Envoy Gateway under Istio Ambient

**TL;DR**: Envoy Gateway v1.6.3 works under Istio Ambient, provided the proxy pod is enrolled in the mesh and the required L4 AuthorizationPolicy is in place.

## Setup

### Requirements

> - MicroK8s with addons: `metallb`, `rbac`, `dns`, `hostpath-storage`

Reviewer: Are these really needed, seems to me like matallb and dns are the only necessary addons here.

Author: Yes, you are correct. These are just from my local setup. I'll remove the other two.

#### 1. Enroll the proxy pod in the mesh

The Envoy proxy deployment needs the `istio.io/dataplane-mode: ambient` label so ztunnel captures its outbound traffic and assigns it a SPIFFE identity:

```bash
kubectl patch deployment -n istio-test <envoy-proxy-deployment> --type=merge \
    -p '{"spec":{"template":{"metadata":{"labels":{"istio.io/dataplane-mode":"ambient"}}}}}'
```

Once enrolled, the proxy's outbound traffic goes through ztunnel via HBONE, complying with ambient routing. The proxy gets a SPIFFE identity like:

```
spiffe://cluster.local/ns/istio-test/sa/<envoy-proxy-sa>
```

#### 2. Add an L4 AuthorizationPolicy

An explicit ALLOW policy is required so ztunnel permits the Envoy proxy's service account to reach the target workload:

```yaml
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: productpage-envoy-gateway-l4
  namespace: istio-test
spec:
  action: ALLOW
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app.kubernetes.io/name: productpage
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
        principals:
        - cluster.local/ns/istio-test/sa/<envoy-proxy-sa>
    to:
    - operation:
        ports:
        - "9080"
```

> This is a L4 policy. All paths are accessible through the envoy gateway. Ingress controllers resolve service endpoints directly (pod IPs), bypassing the service VIP. Because of this, ztunnel treats the traffic as pod-to-pod and does not route it through the waypoint - L7 waypoint policies have no effect on ingress traffic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is an L4 policy. All paths are accessible through the envoy gateway. Ingress controllers resolve service endpoints directly (pod IPs), bypassing the service VIP. Because of this, ztunnel treats the traffic as pod-to-pod and does not route it through the waypoint - waypoint policies have no effect on ingress traffic.
```

Author: Oh my God, English is so hard
